In the mid-60s, a NASA engineer
discovered a rare alignment of our four
biggest planets was about to take place.
This alignment only happened every 175
years, and it would allow a spacecraft
to visit all four of these giant planets
in a single mission. And so, it was up
to Voyager 2 to take on this challenge.
But, in order to get there, Voyager 2
had to thread the needle through space,
perform four gravity assists, and escape
the sun's gravity. The closer an object
is to the sun, the more it will get
pulled in. Since Earth is still
relatively close to the sun, Voyager
needed a lot of energy to escape. None
of the rockets around at the time were
powerful enough to do this. But, due to
this incredible alignment, Voyager could
use gravity assists to slingshot itself
from planet to planet, increasing its
speed along the way. In order for
Voyager to leave our solar system, it
had to exceed the sun's escape velocity,
which at the distance of Earth was about
42 km per second. Despite launching on
the most powerful rocket around at the
time, it could only provide a delta V of
around 10 km per second. This may not
sound like a lot, but Earth was already
moving around the sun at 30 km per
second. So, by launching Voyager in the
direction of Earth's travel, it took
advantage of this velocity, allowing it
to reach around 40 km per second
relative to the sun. Since it was trying
to get a gravity assist from Jupiter, it
aimed itself at the point where Jupiter
was going to be by the time it arrived.
However, despite the sheer scale of the
area around Jupiter, Voyager had to
thread itself through a very narrow 150
km wide corridor and arrive at a
specific point to the nearest second. If
Voyager missed this point or was a few
seconds off, it would have ruined the
gravity assist and its following gravity
assist around Saturn. In order to
achieve such incredible accuracy,
Voyager had to know its exact location
in space and control its speed with
great precision.